{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset204 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Description of dataset:\
\ulnone This CSV file contains 
\b subplot-level
\b0  averages (37 study sites with 2 paired plots, so 74 total plots and 4 subplots per plot) for albedo and biomass across all years of available SustHerb data. Below is a description of each column in the dataset:\
\

\b Region
\b0  - major region of Norway where plot is located (Tr\uc0\u248 ndelag, Telemark, or Hedmark).\
\

\b LocalityName
\b0  - name of the study site where the subplot is located. Each study site has two paired plots - one is an 'exclosure' (fenced off to large herbivores) and the other is open to herbivores.\
\

\b LocalityCode
\b0  - name of the individual plot that the subplot is found in. Plots that are "browsed" and open to herbivores end in "B", while plots that are fenced off to herbivores ("exclosures") end in "UB". Ex. The study site "Bratsberg" has two LocalityCodes - "BRB" is the open plot, and "BRUB" is the exclosure. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - each plot has 12 duplicate rows with the same values in all columns, EXCEPT for "Month", "Albedo", and "Delta_Albedo". These 12 rows correspond to 12 distinct estimates for albedo in each month of the year.\
\

\b Treatment
\b0  - "B" indicates open plots, while "UB" indicates "exclosures" (plots fenced off to herbivores).\
\

\b Subplot
\b0  - an identification code for the subplot (based on its location in the plot - ex. NW for 'Northwest')\
\

\b Years_Since_Exclosure
\b0  - for a given subplot, the number of years since the start of the exclosure experiment. Note that some sites in Hedmark are missing data for the first 1-2 years since exclosure.\
\

\b Month
\b0  - the month corresponding to each albedo estimate for a given subplot in a given year.\
\

\b Albedo
\b0  - the albedo estimate produced for the subplot in a given month and year. \
\

\b Delta_Albedo
\b0  - the 
\i monthly
\i0  change in albedo for a given subplot. Monthly change is calculated by subtracting subplot albedo in the previous month from subplot albedo in the current month. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - delta albedo in Month 1 is calculated by subtracting albedo in Month 12 
\i of the previous year
\i0  from albedo in Month 1 
\i of the current year
\i0 . This means that values of delta albedo in Month 1 of the first year of available data for a given plot are 'NA' (i.e. there are no previous values of albedo with which to calculate delta albedo).\
\

\b Total_Biomass_kg
\b0  - the total biomass (kg) for the subplot in a given year. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Total_Biomass_kg_m2
\b0  - the total biomass per unit area (kg/m2) for the subplot in a given year. \
\

\b Delta_Biomass_kg
\b0  - the 
\i annual
\i0  change in total biomass (kg) for a given subplot. Annual change is calculated by subtracting biomass (for the subplot) in the previous year from biomass in the current year. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - because there isn't baseline data for 'time 0' (i.e. 0 years from exclosure), delta biomass is 'NA' for all subplots in the first year of available data.
\b \
\
Delta_Biomass_kg_m2
\b0  - the 
\i annual
\i0  change in total biomass per unit area (kg/m2) for a given subplot. Annual change is calculated by subtracting biomass (for the subplot) in the previous year from biomass in the current year. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - because there isn't baseline data for 'time 0' (i.e. 0 years from exclosure), delta biomass is 'NA' for all subplots in the first year of available data.\
}