{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset204 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Description of dataset:\
\ulnone This CSV file contains plot-level averages (37 study sites with 2 paired plots, so 74 total plots) for albedo and biomass across all years of available SustHerb data. Below is a description of each column in the dataset:\
\

\b Region
\b0  - major region of Norway where plot is located (Tr\uc0\u248 ndelag, Telemark, or Hedmark).\
\

\b LocalityName
\b0  - name of the study site where the plot is located. Each study site has two paired plots - one is an 'exclosure' (fenced off to large herbivores) and the other is open to herbivores.\
\

\b LocalityCode
\b0  - name of the individual plot. Plots that are "browsed" and open to herbivores end in "B", while plots that are fenced off to herbivores ("exclosures") end in "UB". Ex. The study site "Bratsberg" has two LocalityCodes - "BRB" is the open plot, and "BRUB" is the exclosure. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - each plot has 12 duplicate rows with the same values in all columns, EXCEPT for "Month", "Mean_Plot_Albedo", and "Delta_Albedo". These 12 rows correspond to 12 distinct estimates for albedo in each month of the year.\
\

\b Treatment
\b0  - "B" indicates open plots, while "UB" indicates "exclosures" (plots fenced off to herbivores).\
\

\b Years_Since_Exclosure
\b0  - for a given plot, the number of years since the start of the exclosure experiment.\
\

\b Month
\b0  - the month corresponding to each albedo estimate for a given plot in a given year.\
\

\b Mean_Plot_Albedo
\b0  - the average albedo estimate produced for the plot in a given month and year. The average albedo estimate for each plot is produced by averaging the albedo estimates for each circular subplot in the plot (4 circular subplots per plot).\
\

\b Delta_Albedo
\b0  - the 
\i monthly
\i0  change in albedo for a given plot. Monthly change is calculated by subtracting plot albedo in the previous month from plot albedo in the current month. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - delta albedo in Month 1 is calculated by subtracting albedo in Month 12 
\i of the previous year
\i0  from albedo in Month 1 
\i of the current year
\i0 . This means that values of delta albedo in Month 1 of the first year of available data for a given plot are 'NA' (i.e. there are no previous values of albedo with which to calculate delta albedo).\
\

\b Mean_Plot_Biomass_kg_m2
\b0  - the average total biomass (kg/m2) for the plot in a given year. The average biomass estimate for each plot is produced by averaging the biomass estimates for each circular subplot in the plot (4 circular subplots per plot).\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Mean_Plot_Biomass_kg_ha
\b0  - the average total biomass (kg/ha) for the plot in a given year. The average biomass estimate for each plot is produced by averaging the biomass estimates for each circular subplot in the plot (4 circular subplots per plot).\
\

\b Delta_Biomass_kg_m2
\b0  - the 
\i annual
\i0  change in biomass (kg/m2) for a given plot. Annual change is calculated by subtracting biomass (for the plot) in the previous year from biomass in the current year. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - because there isn't baseline data for 'time 0' (i.e. 0 years from exclosure), delta biomass is 'NA' for all plots in the first year of available data.\
\

\b Delta_Biomass_kg_ha
\b0  - the 
\i annual
\i0  change in biomass (kg/ha) for a given plot. Annual change is calculated by subtracting biomass (for the plot) in the previous year from biomass in the current year. 
\b \ul NOTE
\b0 \ulnone  - because there isn't baseline data for 'time 0' (i.e. 0 years from exclosure), delta biomass is 'NA' for all plots in the first year of available data.\
}